# Accessing CAEPE with the CLI

This guide shows you how to manage CAEPE resources in a terminal using the CAEPE CLI tool.

<!-- ## Installation 
TBD. -->


## Authentication and configuration

There are two options for authenticating and configuring the CAEPE CLI tool:

- [Browser flow](#browser-flow) is typically the most convenient option for end users of CAEPE.
- [Service user flow](#service-user-flow), typically used by non-human users of CAEPE, such as CI jobs.

### Browser flow

To use the browser flow authentication option, you need to use the organization name for your CAEPE instance, which is typically the same as the sub-domain name of your CAEPE instance.

Pass that value to the `--organization` argument of the `caepe-cli` command using the `login` sub-command.

```shell
caepe-cli --organization {ORGANIZATION} login
```

This opens a browser window and takes you through a typically login flow. When that is successful, the CLI saves an authentication token into a _.caepe/auth_ file in your home directory. The CLI uses this token for all following requests to your CAEPE instance.

### Service user flow

[Create a service account user](../caepe_management/manage_users.md#service-account-list) and copy the client ID and secret values. Then use the `caepe-cli` command with the `login` sub-command with the `--organization`, passing the `--client-id`, and `--client-secret` values as environment variables.

```shell
CAEPE_CLIENT_ID={CLIENT_ID} CAEPE_CLIENT_SECRET={CLIENT_SECRET} caepe-cli --organization {ORGANIZATION} login
```

## Managing resources

To use the CAEPE CLI tool, use the command `caepe` followed by the resource you want to manage. The available resources are the following.

### `cluster`

You can create, list, update and delete clusters using the CLI. You can also fetch the namespaces and persistent volumes of clusters.

For more information use the `caepe cluster --help` command or [read the autogenerated documentation](./cli_commands/caepe_cluster.md).

### `deployment`

You can create, list, update and delete deployments using the CLI. You can also rollout and get the status of deployment rollouts.

For more information use the `caepe deployment --help` command or [read the autogenerated documentation](./cli_commands/caepe_deployment.md).

### `smoketest`

You can create, list, update and delete smoke tests using the CLI. You can also execute and callback smoke test jobs.

For more information use the `caepe smoketest --help` command or [read the autogenerated documentation](./cli_commands/caepe_smoketest.md).

### `snapshot`

#### `snapshot definition`

You can create, list, update and delete snapshot definitions using the CLI.

For more information use the `caepe snapshot definition --help` command or [read the autogenerated documentation](./cli_commands/caepe_snapshot_definition.md).

#### `snapshot deployment`

You can create, list, and delete snapshot deployments using the CLI.

For more information use the `caepe snapshot deployment --help` command or [read the autogenerated documentation](./cli_commands/caepe_snapshot_deployment.md).

#### `snapshot instance`

You can create, list, and delete snapshot instances using the CLI.

For more information use the `caepe snapshot instance --help` command or [read the autogenerated documentation](./cli_commands/caepe_snapshot_instance.md).

## Other arguments

- `--debug`: To debug commands, use the `--debug` argument.

  For example, to debug what happens when creating a deployment:

  ```shell
  caepe-cli --debug deployment create --deploymentPost.application warehouse --deploymentPost.cluster ware-clusters --deploymentPost.name warehouse --organization biqmind --deploymentPost.release.branch main --deploymentPost.release.message ware-app-deployment --hostname demo.biqmind.sh --deploymentPost.namespace warehouse --scheme https
  ```

- `--dry-run`: To see the result of running commands without executing them, use the `--dry-run` argument.

  For example, to debug what happens when creating a deployment:

  ```shell
  caepe-cli --dry-run deployment create --deploymentPost.application warehouse --deploymentPost.cluster ware-clusters --deploymentPost.name warehouse --organization biqmind --deploymentPost.release.branch main --deploymentPost.release.message ware-app-deployment --hostname demo.biqmind.sh --deploymentPost.namespace warehouse --scheme https
  ```
